# ProsperLoansAnalysis
This project aims to implement the skills that have been learned about analyzing data by visualization.  The project has been implemented by using Python, Pandas, Seaborn, and Matplotlib, and it has covered the three type of visualization univariate, bivariate. and multivariate.

## Prosper Loan Data

> The dataset is a collection of all the requested loans in the previous years. It contains 113,937 loans with 81 variables for each loan, including loan amount, prosper loan rate, borrower APR, current loan status, borrower income, occupation, loan terms, and many others. The last updated of the dataset was 2014. 


## Summary of Findings

> Our analysis focused on answering the most asked questions from the borrowers such as how long will it takes to obtain a loan? What's the annual cost (APR) that could be endured? What's the monthly payment that could be endured?. In order to answer these questions, we have digged deeply into the data and we discovered the following:  most of the requested loans took between 2 to 15 days to receive it. Also, there's only one relationship between the number of days needed to obtain a loan and the other numerical features which is the number of investors, but the relationship is a weak positive relationship. Besides, there are some relationships between the days and categorical features such as employment status, terms, and prosper ratings. For the second question, most of the borrowers pay between 0.13 and 0.26 as an annual cost of their loans. Also, there are some borrowers who pay more between 0.29-0.30 and 0.35-0.36. Moreover, The borrowers' APR has some correlations with the other numerical features, such as: a strong positive relationship with Estimated loss, a weak positive relationship with debt to income ratio, a weak negative relationships with loan amount, monthly loan payment, and number of investors. Furthermore, the borrowers' APR is highly affected by a lot of categorical features like the borrowers' occupation where those with well paid jobs pay the lowest APR, in contrast of those who have low paid jobs, they actually pay the highest APR. After digging deeply into the data, we discovered the main feature that affect the APR which is the prosper rating where having a low risk rating reduces the annual cost tremendously comparing to those with high risk rating. Therefore, most of the well paid jobs has a very low risk rating, and the low paid jobs has a high risk rating. For the last question, most of the borrowers pay between $0.15 and $200 monthly, but also there some borrowers who pay more between $200-$400, and less borrowers who pay more than $400. Also, The monthly loan payment has a lot of correlation with the other numerical variables which are a strong positive relationship with loan amount, weak positive relationship with number of investors and debt to income ration, a weak negative relationship with APR and estimated loss. Also, it has a strong relationship with the short term loan where the monthly payment is higher in general comparing with mid-long term loans. Finally, there's a strong relationship between the monthly loan payment and prosper rating where the low risk rating always pay higher than those with high risk rating and that due to their loan amount where the low risk rate always request higher loan amount.

## Key Insights for Presentation

> For the presentation, I will answer the most important questions that provide a clear insight and significant information. The first question will be about the number of days needed to obtain a loan, and I will only include the distribution chart since it gives a clear and direct answer as well as the other findings are not that significant. For the second question, it will be about borrowers' APR and I will include only the distribution chart, the highest and lowest paid APR based on occupations, the proportion of prosper rating in each occupation, and the relationship between APR and prosper rating in different terms.
